Peter lived with an indeterminate number of roommates in the velvet
curtained front parlor of a bizarrely divided Victorian house on McAllister
street in San Francisco.  My friend Nikki was staying in the maid's room.
The walls were painted pink, and the Landlord - a flamboyant middle aged
hair metal god - stipulated that his art had to remain on the walls.  Peter
was the only person who could deal with him, calming his moods, less a
tenant and more a curator.

Peter loved the architecture of San Francisco.  His mom had been an
architect.  He was always staring at buildings wistfully, seeing things I
didn't really see.  So I think he truly respected that kooky house in a way
I couldn't.

He was mostly bald with two giant lobes of frizzy, curly hair, a sometimes
pointed beard and mustache.  He wore a big black trench coat, vests, actual
brocade, knee high stripey wool socks, dress leather bike shoes.  He liked
goth dancing, and went to DNA lounge, this pizza night club run by a
Netscape hacker.  I went once or twice and just felt lost, but Peter lit up
at parties, dancing, chatting, flirting.  He was just this larger than life
character.

Peter was a bike person and turned me on to bikes.  There was a whole world
of hidden routes along the contours of San Francisco, and of counter culture
people and attitudes about cars.  We took over the streets in Critical Mass.
His main bike didn't have a bell so he would roll down the street shouting
"ding!"

He had six bikes at once, and was always lending them to visitors.  I loved
"the Bridgestone", and so did everyone else, but he wouldn't sell it.  He
helped me find my road bike on Craigslist, and I knew it was a good deal
when he looked at it slack-jawed and lustily.

I was nervous, but Peter convinced me to ride out of the city and over the
Golden Gate bridge for the first time.  And it was rapture.  For a while we
went over the bridge every weekend, biking around Marin, enjoying some of
the most beautiful coast in the world.  Sometimes we'd pause and stare and
talk about life.  Or maybe I would talk, and Peter would listen.

Peter taught me I could bike any distance as long as I kept eating.  The
secret is to find the right food.  Peter's fuel at the time was "bahnahnah
bread".  So we would bike along and every ten miles, he would get out an
entire loaf of banana bread and just pull off great chunks.  I was
obstinately vegan.  One time I ran out of food... we kept going for as long
as possible, but eventually I had to share his non-vegan banana bread.  It
was delicious.

Peter once tried to bargain with me to eat a steak by offering to not eat
meat for a week.  During Sunday brunches in the McAllister garden, he would
precisely place individual capers and salt flakes on a lox bagel.  He had
this small ampoule of truffle oil.  He made coffee ceremonially in a mocha
pot.  We would listen to Edith Piaf.

Peter loved to gather people and introduce them, so he decided to start up
regular Monday night potluck dinners.  You never knew who was going to come,
or what they would bring.  One time everyone brought a loaf of French bread
or a bottle of wine, except one friend showed up two hours late with a bag
of potatoes and asked if she could use the oven.

Peter worked for the EFF, which I admired, because it seemed to have
purpose.  Peter believed in doing work with purpose.  When we met he had
just proved that Comcast were breaking Internet connections when they
detected people using file sharing services, and I thought that was really
wrong.  So we spent a few months sitting on his sumptuous red couch, in his
front parlor room, hacking on an elaborate program to protect network
neutrality.

Peter was a fearless programmer who would just start typing.  It wasn't
amazing or anything, but it was fluent and worked.  I suspect that's how he
approached French, too.  He was never afraid to get started, and knew enough
to keep going, and was more interested in getting somewhere than in syntax.
It was really a sort of play.  He liked
[shadertoy](https://www.shadertoy.com/user/pde) for little graphics
programs, and built some cool visualizations.  He wrote a [Julia
set](https://www.shadertoy.com/view/tssXzn) ray marcher once and we added
some [reflections](https://www.shadertoy.com/view/3dsSz7) after dinner one
night - I suspect he was trying to cheer me up with a real programming
problem, after I became a manager.

Peter was obviously very bright.  When we met, he was all-but-dissertation,
and had a limited time left to finish his PhD thesis which he expertly
procrastinated.  I tried to read it but quickly got lost - something with
economics, copyright.  Peter had these philosopher friends at Oxford and
elsewhere who talked about far flung ideas like whether we were living in a
simulation, or whether the Sun would engulf the Earth.  They would talk, and
then end up writing papers together which I also couldn't understand, but I
think it was all just another sort of play.

I remember playing elaborate board games with Peter.  It was a foregone
conclusion that he would win, but friends would get progressively more
frustrated as he took forever searching for the best move.  Sometimes we
would just give up, and share all our cards and figure out what was optimal
for everyone to do at each next turn, instead of playing the damned game.

When they needed another roommate in the big Victorian house, the housemates
interviewed people, and Peter was adamant they had to choose this girl
Emily.  Peter and Emily soon had a clandestine romance going, which I guess
everyone knew about, and within a month they were dating.  I remember when
they celebrated their 2^5 and 5^2 birthdays together.

And then my friend's friend Igor moved to town, and started hanging out with
Peter.  And Igor's cousin had a friend Abi, and Emily had a friend David,
and on and on for years.  We kept meeting, like scattered pieces of some
puzzle, and Peter was ever the connector.  Relationships came and went but
the people remained, a web of friends, a kind of tribe.

Later, we camped together at Burning Man.  I had never really even been
camping before.  But my friends patiently explained that as there was no
running water, you had to use it sparingly.  So you didn't really wash
dishes, you kind of wet them and wiped them off.  I never appreciated how
amazing it is to be able to turn on a faucet and have clean water come out,
until I couldn't.  That is how I feel now about Peter.

Peter loved the art, but was never much for the infrastructure and logistics
nonsense of Burning Man.  We found a kitchen sink at a salvage store, and we
fit it into a countertop with a bucket beneath.  Once Peter was trying to
help with camp chores, and decided to empty the bucket.  So he picked it up
and started to empty it down the sink.

One year, Igor and I designed a climbing structure.  We had a 55 gallon drum
of rail fittings delivered in front of the house, and Peter talked the
Landlord into letting us store schedule 40 steel pipes in the yard.  We
built little sections at a time.  Peter was going to do the lights, and kept
putting it off.  He found these Chinese takeout containers, and wanted to
glue them together, but they wouldn't stick.  So one weekend before, the
living room was a mess of different plastic containers and glues, and Igor
and I decided to make a different light.  Peter was hurt, but he did finish
his light and bring it another time.

He had this great bathtub sized bin full of costumes, and the lid wouldn't
stay on, so it was all duct taped up.  I cursed loudly and often as I
carried that thing back and forth to the desert, packing lesser crates
around it.  And then we had to stop every twenty miles to get bread from a
specialty baker, coffee from a pretty okay coffee shop, and could we
possibly make a quick stop at Wal-Mart?  But then he would give me and
others clothes, and share food and drink, and help you to find that one
thing that made you feel you belonged.

Peter was also friends with a bunch of MIT kids who lived in a warehouse
down in SoMa, where he lived for a while.  And they were part of a crew that
did this other festival, Priceless, which I think was Peter's true home.  It
used to be up north in the Feather River canyon, and it was a much gentler
place to camp.  He danced all night, and read poetry on the railroad tracks.

I came to appreciate there were many other houses, and other circles in
Peter's life.  We met once in Amsterdam, and then in a polder with a bunch
of hackers, and then on a three masted sailing ship on the IJ, and he seemed
to know everyone.  He was constantly scheming and going on adventures,
trying to talk me into going along.  I wish I had said yes more!  I found an
email dated from September, 2015.

From: Peter
To: Abi, Igor, me
Subject: Conspiracies

Bike touring in the Northwest w/ climbing at smith rock and bacon
Australia in march
Acro on the 13th
Copenhagen
Iceland
Amsterdam
Stockholm

â€” sent from my personal tracking device

I almost bought houses with Peter on three separate occasions.  Even after
we had grown apart during the pandemic, he tried to rope me in to a new
communal living situation on his return to San Francisco - I think because
he could tell I was lonely.  He earnestly wanted to bring people together
and build community.

Peter started to take AI seriously long before anyone else I knew.  We had
all sorts of late night nerd discussions about scanning and emulation.  But
I was a little worried when, after a successful career in Internet policy,
he quit his day job to start working on AI policy.  Watching the rapid
progress these past few years though, maybe he was right.

It is bittersweet now to hear Peter remembered as an author of "let's
encrypt".  That was influential work, but I think we expected his most
important work was yet to come.

He wanted to use AI responsibly to improve the human condition.  He told me
about his institute on a few night time walks, and I didn't properly
understand; he wanted to make an app where people told an AI what they
wanted?  Free market economies were computational analogues to neural
networks?  These are ideas for some future time, like an always-connected
network of supercomputers we carry in our pockets.

The last time I saw him was a few months ago when he came for dinner.  It
had been way too long.  We both got busy with life.  We talked about whether
AI could help people to anthropomorphize nature to relate more personally to
climate challenges, like giving voices to trees.

Our final chat messages were so banal.  I wish I'd told him that I loved him
like a brother.  He was optimistic about his surgery.  I said I was glad he
had a team of doctors he trusted, and joked that if he needed any software
or silicon help, to let me know.  I meant that I felt powerless.  But if
ever there is a way I can help, the offer stands.

He was rational, not mystical.  But on one of our bike rides, Peter shared
that he believed in the Gaia hypothesis, that the whole Earth is one
composite entity.  I think I believe that too.